`Text` component - Documentation (#1550)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/text/partials/code/how-to-use.md

The `Text` component is a **code-only** component used to apply specific predefined HDS typographic styles to a block of text or content.

> The equivalent in Figma is not a component, but a set of [typographic Figma styles](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?type=design&node-id=1262-9192).

Reviewer: This should probably go into an info banner.

Author: Done

The `Text` component is a **code-only** component used to apply specific predefined HDS typographic styles to a block of text or content.

> The equivalent if Figma is not a component, but a set of [typographic Figma styles](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?type=design&node-id=1262-9192).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The equivalent in Figma is not a component, but a set of [typographic Figma styles](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?type=design&node-id=1262-9192).
```

## How to use this component

> The “base” `Text` component is specialized in three different variants–the ones actually used by the consumers–with a one-to-one association between the namespace (eg. `::Display`) and the [corresponding style in Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?type=design&node-id=1262-9192&mode=design).

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if "specialized" is the right word here, maybe "available"?

> The “base” `Text` component is specialized in three different variants–the ones actually used by the consumers–with a one-to-one association between the namespace (eg. `::Display`) and the [corresponding style in Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?type=design&node-id=1262-9192&mode=design).

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this is trying to say, but it reads a little awkwardly to me

```suggestion
The “base” `Text` component is specialized in three different variants with a one-to-one association between the namespace (eg. `::Display`) and the [corresponding style in Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?type=design&node-id=1262-9192&mode=design).
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display>Text as "Display" variant</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body>Text as "Body" variant</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code>Text as "Code" variant</Hds::Text::Code>
```

> Since no `@tag` argument is provided (see below) by default the text element is rendered as a `<span>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When no `@tag` argument is provided (see below) by default the text element is rendered as a `<span>`.
```

> Since no `@tag` argument is provided (see below) by default the text element is rendered as a `<span>`.

Reviewer 2: Sometimes this directional language can be problematic (say, if the content is reorganized for some reason). Might be better to remove this or just link to the headline.

```suggestion
Since no `@tag` argument is provided by default the text element is rendered as a `<span>`.
```

### HTML tag

To specify which HTML tag to use to render the element, use the `@tag` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display @tag="h1">Text as "Display" variant</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p">Text as "Body" variant</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code @tag="pre">Text as "Code" variant</Hds::Text::Code>
```

!!! Insight

> While by default the component renders as `<span>`, we invite consumers to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While by default the component renders a `<span>`, we invite consumers to:
```

- consider which HTML semantic tag is the correct one for the context in which the text is used
- always set a `@tag` value accordingly, to make the explicit the semantic choice

!!!

### Size

To specify which size to apply to the text, use the `@size` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display @tag="h1" @size="500">Text as "Display-500" variant</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="300">Text as "Body-300" variant</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code @tag="pre" @size="100">Text as "Code-100" variant</Hds::Text::Code>
```

> Different style variants support different sizes: refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section for details.

Reviewer 2: This seems duplicative of the critical banner in the next section

Author: They're not the same: one is about the sizes, one about the weight (they're two distinct arguments, in code, while in Figma the size is implicit with the style name (eg. `sisplay-500`) )

### Weight

To apply a specific font weight to the text, use the `@weight` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="300" @weight="bold">"Display" text with "bold" font weight</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @weight="medium">"Body" text with "medium" font weight</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @weight="semibold">"Body" text with "semibold" font weight</Hds::Text::Body>
```

!!! Critical

**Important**

> 

Reviewer 2: remove empty return

```suggestion
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="strong">This text has a "strong" color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="action-active">This text has an "action-active" color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="highlight-high-contrast">This text has a "highlight-high-contrast" color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
```

For the list of possible foreground colors supported refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section for details.

It’s also possible to provide a CSS color as string (in this case the color will be applied as inline style). The string can be a CSS `var()` that uses one of the [predefined color tokens](/foundations/colors?tab=palette):

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="var(--token-color-palette-blue-400)">This text has a "blue-400" color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
```

Or it can be one of the standard CSS color formats (hex, rgb, rgba, hsl, etc.):

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="#FF0000">This text has a "#FF0000" (red) color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
```

!!! Warning

> We don't do validation on the CSS color string, so make sure the value used is correct.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We don't validate the CSS color string, ensure that the value used is correct.
```

!!!

## How to use this component

The `Text` component is available in three different variants with a one-to-one association between the namespace (eg. `::Display`) and the [corresponding style in Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/oQsMzMMnynfPWpMEt91OpH/HDS-Product---Foundations?type=design&node-id=1262-9192&mode=design).

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display>Text as "Display" variant</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body>Text as "Body" variant</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code>Text as "Code" variant</Hds::Text::Code>
```

When no `@tag` argument is provided by default the text element is rendered as a `<span>`.

### HTML tag

To specify which HTML tag to use to render the element, use the `@tag` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display @tag="h1">Text as "Display" variant</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p">Text as "Body" variant</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code @tag="pre">Text as "Code" variant</Hds::Text::Code>
```

!!! Insight

While by default the component renders a `<span>`, we invite consumers to:

> - consider which HTML semantic tag is the correct one for the context in which the text is used

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- consider which semantic HTML tag is the correct one for the context in which the text is used
```

> - always set a `@tag` value accordingly, to make the explicit the semantic choice

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- always set a `@tag` value accordingly, to make the semantic choice explicit
```

To specify which size to apply to the text, use the `@size` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display @tag="h1" @size="500">Text as "Display-500" variant</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="300">Text as "Body-300" variant</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code @tag="pre" @size="100">Text as "Code-100" variant</Hds::Text::Code>
```

Different style variants support different sizes: refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section for details.

### Weight

To apply a specific font weight to the text, use the `@weight` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="300" @weight="medium">"Display" text with "medium" font weight</Hds::Text::Display>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @weight="semibold">"Body" text with "semibold" font weight</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code @tag="pre" @weight="bold">"Copy" text with "bold" font weight</Hds::Text::Code>
```

!!! Critical

**Important**

Different typographic styles support only [a limited set of font weights](/foundations/typography?tab=code#style-and-weight).
Refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section to see what the allowed combinations are for the different styles.

!!!

### Alignment

> To specify a text alignment use the `@align` argument:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To specify a text alignment, use the `@align` argument:
```

```handlebars

> <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h1" @align="right">This text is right aligned</Hds::Text::Display>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<Hds::Text::Display @tag="h1" @align="right">This text is right-aligned</Hds::Text::Display>
```

<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @align="center">This text is center-aligned</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Code @tag="pre" @align="left">This text is left-aligned</Hds::Text::Code>
```

### Color

> It is possible to apply to the text a specific **foreground** color (from a predefined list) using the `@color` argument:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is possible to apply a specific **foreground** color to the text (from a predefined list) using the `@color` argument:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="strong">This text has a "strong" color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="action-active">This text has an "action-active" color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="highlight-high-contrast">This text has a "highlight-high-contrast" color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
```

> For the list of possible foreground colors supported refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the list of possible foreground colors supported, refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section for details.
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @color="#FF0000">This text has a "#FF0000" (red) color applied</Hds::Text::Body>
```

!!! Warning

We don't validate the CSS color string, ensure that the value used is correct.

!!!

### Structured content

Since the component is not prescriptive on the tags that can be used to render the text, it can be used to apply a typographic style not only to plain text but also to structured content:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="300">This text contains some <strong>strong</strong> and <em>em</em> tags, a <Hds::Link::Inline @href="#">link</Hds::Link::Inline>.</Hds::Text::Body>
```

We can imagine even more complex examples where we may want to apply a typographic style to an entire block of content:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="div" @size="200" @color="strong">
  <p>This is some generic text in a paragraph.</p>
  <ul>
    <li>this list item contains some <strong>strong</strong> and <em>em</em> tags</li>
    <li>this list item contains a <Hds::Link::Inline @href="#">link</Hds::Link::Inline></li>
  </ul>
  <p>This is also some generic text in a paragraph.</p>
</Hds::Text::Body>
```

!!! Warning

**Notice**

> While this is technically possible, it's not necessarily desirable (or correct in every possible context).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While this is technically possible, it’s not necessarily desirable (or correct in every possible context).
```

> Please be mindful of how the markup is structured, in terms of HTML semantic (for accessibility) as well as code readability (for the developers writing/reviewing/maintaining that code, now and in the future).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Please be mindful of how the markup is structured, in terms of HTML semantics (for accessibility) as well as code readability (for the developers writing/reviewing/maintaining that code, now and in the future).
```
